---
layout: posts
title: Volumes
date: 2019-02-26 15:55:00 +0900
type: posts
published: true
comments: true
categories: [dockerkubernetes]
tags: [kubernetes]
---

Volumes
On-disk files in a Container are ephemeral, which presents some problems for non-trivial applications when running in Containers. First, when a Container crashes, kubelet will restart it, but the files will be lost - the Container starts with a clean state. Second, when running Containers together in a Pod it is often necessary to share files between those Containers. The Kubernetes Volume abstraction solves both of these problems.
A Kubernetes volume, on the other hand, has an explicit lifetime - the same as the Pod that encloses it. Consequently, a volume outlives any Containers that run within the Pod, and data is preserved across Container restarts. Of course, when a Pod ceases to exist, the volume will cease to exist, too. Perhaps more importantly than this, Kubernetes supports many types of volumes, and a Pod can use any number of them simultaneously.
To use a volume, a Pod specifies what volumes to provide for the Pod (the .spec.volumes field) and where to mount those into Containers (the .spec.containers.volumeMountsfield).

Local
A local volume represents a mounted local storage device such as a disk, partition or directory.
Local volumes can only be used as a statically created PersistentVolume. Dynamic provisioning is not supported yet.
Compared to hostPath volumes, local volumes can be used in a durable and portable manner without manually scheduling Pods to nodes, as the system is aware of the volume’s node constraints by looking at the node affinity on the PersistentVolume.
However, local volumes are still subject to the availability of the underlying node and are not suitable for all applications. If a node becomes unhealthy, then the local volume will also become inaccessible, and a Pod using it will not be able to run. Applications using local volumes must be able to tolerate this reduced availability, as well as potential data loss, depending on the durability characteristics of the underlying disk.
The following is an example PersistentVolume spec using a local volume and nodeAffinity:
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: example-pv
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 100Gi
  # volumeMode field requires BlockVolume Alpha feature gate to be enabled.
  volumeMode: Filesystem
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Delete
  storageClassName: local-storage
  local:
    path: /mnt/disks/ssd1
  nodeAffinity:
    required:
      nodeSelectorTerms:
      - matchExpressions:
        - key: kubernetes.io/hostname
          operator: In
          values:
          - example-node

PersistentVolume nodeAffinity is required when using local volumes. It enables the Kubernetes scheduler to correctly schedule Pods using local volumes to the correct node.
PersistentVolume volumeMode can now be set to “Block” (instead of the default value “Filesystem”) to expose the local volume as a raw block device. The volumeMode field requires BlockVolume Alpha feature gate to be enabled.
When using local volumes, it is recommended to create a StorageClass with volumeBindingMode set to WaitForFirstConsumer. See the example. Delaying volume binding ensures that the PersistentVolumeClaim binding decision will also be evaluated with any other node constraints the Pod may have, such as node resource requirements, node selectors, Pod affinity, and Pod anti-affinity.
An external static provisioner can be run separately for improved management of the local volume lifecycle. Note that this provisioner does not support dynamic provisioning yet. For an example on how to run an external local provisioner, see the local volume provisioner user guide.
Note: The local PersistentVolume requires manual cleanup and deletion by the user if the external static provisioner is not used to manage the volume lifecycle.

Persistent Volumes

Managing storage is a distinct problem from managing compute. The PersistentVolume subsystem provides an API for users and administrators that abstracts details of how storage is provided from how it is consumed. To do this we introduce two new API resources: PersistentVolume and PersistentVolumeClaim.

A PersistentVolume (PV) is a piece of storage in the cluster that has been provisioned by an administrator. It is a resource in the cluster just like a node is a cluster resource. PVs are volume plugins like Volumes, but have a lifecycle independent of any individual pod that uses the PV. This API object captures the details of the implementation of the storage, be that NFS, iSCSI, or a cloud-provider-specific storage system.

A PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) is a request for storage by a user. 
Pods consume node resources and PVCs consume PV resources. 
Claims can request specific size and access modes (e.g., can be mounted once read/write or many times read-only). 
While PersistentVolumeClaims allow a user to consume abstract storage resources, it is common that users need PersistentVolumes with varying properties, such as performance, for different problems. Cluster administrators need to be able to offer a variety of PersistentVolumes that differ in more ways than just size and access modes, 
without exposing users to the details of how those volumes are implemented. For these needs there is the StorageClass resource.

Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage
1. A cluster administrator creates a PersistentVolume that is backed by physical storage. The administrator does not associate the volume with any Pod.
2. A cluster user creates a PersistentVolumeClaim, which gets automatically bound to a suitable PersistentVolume.
3. The user creates a Pod that uses the PersistentVolumeClaim as storage.


